This repository is a collapsing of the data from UCI 
Human Activity data provided by University of California
at Irvine.  The experimental data can be found here:
http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones

The repository consists of XX files:
README.md- this readme file

run_analysis.R- The script file that takes in the raw data from UCI 
and collapses the data into multiple datasets by subject. To execute this
script the sqldf and memisc package must be installed.

The script preforms multiple key steps

1- Read in some basic information about the data
2- Read in the data on the test subjects
3- Read in the data on the training subjects
4- Combine all data into one data set 
5- Collapse the dataset to one observation per subject per activity
6- Output the data sets and codebook

The collapsing calculates the average of each variable for each user 
on each activity. 

Example: Subject 1 had 95 different observations
for walking on level ground (see n_obs variable).  Row 1 in the Master_Results.csv
contains the average of each variable across all 95 observations.  

The variables have been relabelled to make slightly  more sense.  As a reference
 variables follow the general rubric of  ORIGINALMEASUREMENT_MOTION_AXIS. The first item
in the name is what statistical measure UCI provided (mean, std/standard dev, etc.).
To be clear, the values in fields labels as std is the average std. for all observations.
 
Due to the large number of variables associated with each subject, only those
variables that are labelled as the mean or std of a given motion were kept.

The following data tables contain 86 variables for each of the
subjects.  The data set represents the average of all collected samples
for the subject by activity performed. THe datasets are named:  
results_LAYING.csv
results_SITTING.csv
results_STANDING.csv
results_WALKING.csv
results_WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS.csv
results_WALKING_UPSTAIRS.csv
 
 Master_Results.csv - The overall results file. This contains 
 
 The codebook for this dataset is stored in codebook.md. It
 contains a codebook which was largely generated by the memisc
 package with additional notes on key variables that were generated
 by the script. See the documentation provided by UCI for more details about 
 what the various motion calculation represent. 
 